I've been using [Roam](roamresearch.com) a lot as of late, I lucked out a few
months ago (around March of 2020 or so) where there was a short gap of an open,
public, and free beta period for the online tool and I've been secretly using it
since then without paying for it (sorry Roam team!).

It's been an interesting tool to learn and use, I've really enjoyed the
flexibility and freedom to make pages and links between concepts and ideas using
the `[[backlink]]` format. However, it's still way too early to say that I fully
understand how to use the tool to it's extent. As of late however, I've been
really thinking about how I wish I had Roam's features deeply integrated
everywhere else in my day to day use of software.

For those of you that don't know, I'm a software engineer and I get to write
code here and there, I've really been feeling this need for a deep integration
between my code editor, the codebase I work in, and Roam. I'd love to have a new
filetype that allowed me to freely mix in notes and documentation like a
markdown file but also exist _in_ the flow of the rest of the code I'm working
in.

As I was thinking about this, I was reminded about
[Observable HQ](https://observablehq.com/) which (from what I have heard about
them) is essentially a JavaScript variant of Jupyter notebooks, allowing for
intermixing of runnable code snippets alongside long form content.

It also just so happens that I decided to start exploring
[Swift](https://swift.org/) (the programming language), which packages up it's
getting started guide as a `.playground` file, which is something that Xcode
(and Swift Playgrounds on iOS) can open and run. These playground files are
again another example of a deep integration of runnable code snippets alongside
long form documentation.

<br />

---

I'd really love to play the role of some superior being and smash these two
concepts into one tool, the interconnectedness offered by Roam, and the deep
integration of runnable code and documentation.

I think [MDX](mdxjs.com) has the highest liklihood of becoming something like
this, but it feels like a low-fidelity mock-up of this concept.
