---
title: "Redesign"
slug: "redesign"
path: "/2016/april/redesign"
date: 1459771200000
status: "public"
type: "blog-post"
tags: ["Thoughts","Redesign"]
description: ""
month: "april"
year: 2016
---



I recently redesigned my entire website for two reasons. The first was that I
wanted to try and use a CSS library I have started work on, and the second was
because I felt like my current site was a bit chaotic.

I have written several posts about redesigning certain websites whether they are
mine or some other sites, and for most of those writeups I went into the
specific design principles or explained the different reasons as to why I used
specific things. This writeup will not be like those as I am currently fairly
short on time. instead I wanted to talk about a few things that I am using and a
few things that I am cutting entirely from the website.

The first thing that I cut, and not initially by need or want, was any sort of
external javascript file. I used to be loading in jQuery and a few external
files because I was using things like mustachejs for templates and loading in a
ton of data. Now I simply use javascript for Google analytics and thats all. I
haven't done the due diligence of checking load times of my website before the
redesign and after the redesign, however I am fairly certain that by removing a
ton of the waste the site should be loading faster for a lot of people.

The last thing I want to add is to talk a bit about what I used for my css. The
entire layout is done using <kbd>flexbox</kbd> which made the design part
incredibly easy. This of course means that the website will look completely
terrible when viewed from browsers that don't support these css standards, but I
am alright with that. I was considering using the Grid Layout CSS features but
decided to not use it because only a small number of browsers actually support
Grid Layout and I figured it would be easier for me to simply use flexbox.

As I said in the beginning I am using a lot of my own CSS / HTML assets. In fact
I am only really using Ion Icons and Normalize.css as my external 3rd party
resources. I am sure I could have optimized my site more but as it stands now I
am fairly happy with how it works and feels.

As a sidenote, about a month ago I moved all my sites over to Cloudflare in
order to setup HTTPS on all my domains. This has been really easy to do and I am
happy with how simple it was to actually setup.

