---
title: "Powerpoint"
slug: "powerpoint"
path: "/2015/december/powerpoint"
date: 1449057600000
status: "public"
type: "blog-post"
tags: ["Startups","Ideas"]
description: ""
month: "december"
year: 2015
---



If you happen to be following the startup world (which is a fairly large
catchall term) you may have noticed a trend of new companies building new
software that simplifies older software and adds a new UI to it. This has been
happening with text editors, first came Google docs, making a web version of
tools like Microsoft Word. Then others showed up such as Evernote, Dropbox
Paper, Notorious and plenty of other text editing solutions. This has been
happening with software like Excel, where Google yet again made google sheets,
then companies like Fieldbook and Airtable have been re-inventing the excel
spreadsheet.

> All web apps are just derivative versions of Excel

The one thing that I haven't seen is a remake of Powerpoint or presentation
software. I am sure some people might point out to solutions like Prezi, however
there really hasn't been a breakout powerpoint alternative.

So I figured why not make a post calling for people to make such a thing. This
is clearly a product that thousands of people and businesses use on a daily
basis and so therefor has a huge market to penetrate.

So here is what I want to see in a Powerpoint killer web app:

1. Automation
2. Interactivity
3. Collaboration
4. Endlessness

### Automation

What I mean by automation is that when I make a new presentation, I should be
able to drag and drop in some media assets such as branding iconography, logos,
fonts, color palates etc. and the software should know what to do with that. On
top of this I want to be able to easily specify an agenda at the beginning of
the presentation and have the software automatically generate the slides with
titles relating to the agenda (This should be done in all software!). All this
should happen without me worrying about copy-pasting assets from one slide deck
to another.

### Interactivity

The web has been the leading point of development for interactivity, we now
interact with content like never before, and yet we still only interact with
presentations linearly. Prezi handles this fairly well, each presentation should
be able to have some dynamic navigation, while also allowing people to interact
with the presentation in the format they prefer.

### Collaboration

This is easy, allow many people to edit it at the same time and you are set.

### Endlessness

As a person who makes presentations I should feel like there is nothing I can't
do with this new web app. I should be able to use it to make mock ups of mobile
applications, or use it as a dynamic photo gallery. The presentation software
can be as bare bones as possible, all that should limit someone with the
software should be their imagination.

Ultimately I am sure someone is probably working on a Powerpoint remake, and I
hope that they design it as well as recent Word and Excel remakes. The key to
remember that you may feel like you are designing some new piece of software but
most web developers end up simply re-building some old piece of software with a
new look and feel. This isn't a bad thing at all, I don't want to have to use
Windows 98 to write a quick word document. Just make sure that you realize that
what you are developing has probably already been done.

