---
title: "August"
slug: "august"
path: "/2016/august/august"
date: 1471694400000
status: "public"
type: "blog-post"
tags: ["Recap"]
description: ""
month: "august"
year: 2016
---



Where to start? There has been 4 months since my last post on my blog here. A
lot has changed since that last post. First off I am now located in Boston
Massachusetts. (Hopefully I spelled that correctly, I've had really bad luck
with spelling it right on the first time). I am working at a company called
[Wayfair](http://wayfair.com) (and probably should say that I don't speak for
the company at all).

I have been working as a web developer crushing CSS and HTML bugs, as well as
shipping several large new features for Wayfair and it's affiliated brands.
While doing this work I have begun to hate web development work, at least work
for a large company and brand (<s>I will probably write another post about these
feelings.</s> <a href="/post/Web-Development-Sucks">Here</a> is a link to that
post.)

Over the past few months I have been working on several projects, one for a
small startup which will launch soon, another that is coming up for another
startup, some small personal projects and mostly searching for work. I haven't
been as active as I would have liked with my personal projects, so now I have
been focusing on side projects in the evenings and on the weekends.

I have also been working on revising my diet, I bought
[Coffiest](https://www.soylent.com/product/coffiest/) a week or two ago and have
been addicted to it since the second one ðŸ˜„. After I began to like that I
decided to pull the trigger and bought some
["Space Food"](https://www.spacenutrientsstation.com). This stuff is really odd
at first but once you get used to it its actually quite interesting. I have
begun to replace my lunches at work with simply a cup of powder and some water.
Unfortunately I still have a ton of real food in my fridge that I need to go
through first before completely switching over.

The only things I really only need to change are my productivity habits/systems
and also starting to get some bodyweight fitness activities into my daily
schedules.

I plan on writing a lot more as I have several blog ideas built up over the
months that I wasn't writing, so stay tuned for more!

