---
title: "Pull Quotes"
slug: "pull-quotes"
path: "/2016/august/pull-quotes"
date: 1472040000000
status: "public"
type: "blog-post"
tags: ["Web","Thoughts"]
description: ""
month: "august"
year: 2016
---



I recently read <a href="https://adactio.com/journal/11102">this</a> interesting
blog post about why pull quotes are used on the web. The article talks a bit
about why pull quotes existed in the first place[^1]. and the author feels that
web developers blindly followed what they were doing in print and implemented
them on the web.

Some may find this statement a bit overreaching however I actually think it is
right on the target. If you think about it most of web development from the
early days even up to now has been trying to emulate what you can do in paper
(be that newspaper, books, or magazines). The “holy grail” problem for web
development was how do I make my website look like a magazine.

I understand a need for developers to make their sites look normal or ordinary.
Heck this blog post is ordinary in that it is a centered stream of paragraphs
just like newspapers and books before it. Part of the reason behind this is
because readers happen to read in an “F” shaped pattern where they read from
left to right (if their language is laid out like that) for the first line or
two (generally the headline), then skip down the page, read a bit more and then
skim down the rest of the page. This has been analyzed by many different groups
by tracking eyes while reading webpages and other media.

I am not here to say that we should completely drop pull quotes from our writing
or from our web layout standards, nor am I saying that we should avoid these
deep layout patterns (they make reading really easy for a lot of people). What I
do want to say is that pull quotes should be more than just direct copies of a
sentence that already exists in the body copy of the article. If you go through
and read most of my blog posts, you will undoubtably see a ton of block quotes
meant to stand out to the reader. I am proud to say that I have tried to make
each and every one of those contain different content that what is found in the
body of the post. This is because I want users to quickly read a bit about the
article by reading the block quotes, and then if they want to read the article
the block quotes offer extra value when reading.

### Footnotes:

[^1]: In newspaper’s people would flip through the pages and pull quotes were
intended to grab the reader’s attention and pull them into reading the article.
I seriously doubt that they were named pull quotes because they wanted to pull
the reader in.

